{{TOC}}

+++
## Basic JavaScript
JavaScript is a scripting language you can use to make web pages interactive. It is one of the core technologies of the web, along with HTML and CSS, and is supported by all modern browsers.

### Comment Your JavaScript Code
```
// This is an in-line comment.
/* This is a
multi-line comment */
``` 

### Declare JavaScript Variables
JavaScript provides eight different data types which are `undefined`, `null`, `boolean`, `string`, `symbol`, `bigint`, `number`, and `object`.

Variables allow computers to store and manipulate data in a dynamic fashion. They do this by using a "label" to point to the data rather than using the data itself. They are a simple name to represent the data we want to refer to. 

Create or declare a variable by putting the keyword var in front of it

```
var myVar;
``` 

### Storing Values with the Assignment Operator
```
var myVar;
myVar = 5;
```

### Assigning the Value of One Variable to Another
```
var myVar;
myVar = 5;
var myNum;
myNum = myVar;
```

### Initializing Variables with the Assignment Operator
```
var myVar = 0;
```

### Declare String Variables
Strings are sequences of characters written between `"` or `'`

```
var myName = "your name";
``` 

### Understanding Uninitialized Variables
When JavaScript variables are declared, they have an initial value of `undefined`. If you do a mathematical operation on an `undefined` variable your result will be `NaN` which means *"Not a Number"*. If you concatenate a string with an `undefined` variable, you will get a *string* of `undefined`.

### Understanding Case Sensitivity in Variables
In JavaScript all variables and function names are case sensitive. This means that capitalization matters.

In *camelCase*, multi-word variable names have the first word in lowercase and the first letter of each subsequent word is capitalized.

### Explore Differences Between the `var` and `let` Keywords
One of the biggest problems with declaring variables with the `var` keyword is that you can easily overwrite variable declarations.  
If you declare a variable with `let`, if you try to overwrite it you get an error.

Unlike `var`, when you use `let`, a variable with the same name can only be declared once.

### Declare a Read-Only Variable with the `const` Keyword
`const` has all the awesome features that `let` has, with the added bonus that variables declared using `const` are read-only. They are a constant value, which means that once a variable is assigned with `const`, it cannot be reassigned.

In summary:
- `var`: function scoped, can be reassigned, hoisted
- `let`: block scoped, can be reassigned
- `const`: block scoped, cannot be reassigned, must be assigned a value at declaration

### Add Two Numbers with JavaScript
```js
const myVar = 5 + 10;
```

### Subtract One Number from Another with JavaScript
```js
const myVar = 5 - 10;
```

### Multiply Two Numbers with JavaScript
```js
const myVar = 5 * 10;
```

### Divide One Number by Another with JavaScript
```js
const myVar = 5 / 10;
```

### Increment a Number with JavaScript
```js
i++;  // same as: i=i+1;
```

### Decrement a Number with JavaScript
```js
i--;  // same as: i=i-1;
```

### Create Decimal Numbers with JavaScript
Decimal numbers (`0.0` rather than `0`) are sometimes referred to as *floating point* numbers or *floats*.

**Note**: when you compute numbers, they are computed with finite precision. Operations using floating points may lead to different results than the desired outcome.

### Multiply Two Decimals with JavaScript
`console.log(1.002*3.14)`

### Divide One Decimal by Another with JavaScript
`console.log(1.002/3.14)`

### Finding a Remainder in JavaScript
The *remainder* operator `%` gives the remainder of the division of two numbers.

> Example:  
> 5 % 2 = 1 because
> Math.floor(5 / 2) = 2 (Quotient)
> 2 * 2 = 4
> 5 - 4 = 1 (Remainder)

**Usage**  
In mathematics, a number can be checked to be even or odd by checking the remainder of the division of the number by 2.
> 17 % 2 = 1 (17 is Odd)
> 48 % 2 = 0 (48 is Even)

**Note**: The *remainder* operator is sometimes incorrectly referred to as the modulus operator. It is very similar to modulus, but does not work properly with negative numbers.

### Compound Assignment With Augmented Addition
In programming, it is common to use assignments to modify the contents of a variable. Remember that everything to the right of the equals sign is evaluated first, so we can say:

```js
myVar = myVar + 5;
```

to add `5` to `myVar`. Since this is such a common pattern, there are operators which do both a mathematical operation and assignment in one step.

One such operator is the `+=` operator.

```js
let myVar = 1;
myVar += 5;
console.log(myVar); // 6
```

### Compound Assignment With Augmented Subtraction
Like the `+=` operator, `-=` subtracts a number from a variable.

### Compound Assignment With Augmented Multiplication
The `*=` operator multiplies a variable by a number.

### Compound Assignment With Augmented Division
The `/=` operator divides a variable by another number.

```js
myVar /= 5;   /* same as */   myVar = myVar / 5;
```

**Note**: Using the semicolon `;` allows us to write the code without needing to insert a new line.

### Escaping Literal Quotes in Strings
When you are defining a string you must start and end with a single or double quote. What happens when you need a literal quote: `"` or `'` inside of your string?

In JavaScript, you can *escape* a quote from considering it as an end of string quote by placing a *backslash* (`\`) in front of the quote.

```js
const sampleStr = "Alan said, \"Peter is learning JavaScript\".";
```

### Quoting Strings with Single Quotes
String values in JavaScript may be written between single or double quotes. In JavaScript both works the same way.

Good example for using both:

```js
const sentence = "I'm tired";
```

### Escape Sequences in Strings
Quotes are not the only characters that can be *escaped* inside a string. There are two reasons to use escaping characters:
1. To allow you to use characters you may not otherwise be able to type out, such as a newline.
2. To allow you to represent multiple quotes in a string without JavaScript misinterpreting what you mean.

We learned this in the previous challenge.

| Code | Output |
|:--:|:--|
| `\'` | single quote |
| `\"` | double quote |
| `\\` | backslash |
| `\n` | newline |
| `\t` | tab |
| `\r` | carriage return |
| `\b` | word boundary |
| `\f` | form feed |

**Note**: the backslash itself must be escaped in order to display as a backslash.

### Concatenating Strings with Plus Operator
Strings can be concatenated using `+`.  
You *can't* multiply them with `*` like in Python.

### Concatenating Strings with the Plus Equals Operator
```js
let ourStr = "I come first. ";
ourStr += "I come second.";
```

### Constructing Strings with Variables
```js
const ourName = "freeCodeCamp";
const ourStr = "Hello, our name is " + ourName + ", how are you?";
```

### Appending Variables to Strings
```js
const anAdjective = "awesome!";
let ourStr = "freeCodeCamp is ";
ourStr += anAdjective;
```

### Find the Length of a String
```js
console.log("Alan Peter".length);
```

### Use Bracket Notation to Find the First Character in a String
*Bracket notation* is a way to get a character at a specific index within a string. JavaScript like other modern languages start counting at 0, which is referred to as *Zero-based* indexing.

```js
const firstName = "Charles";
const firstLetter = firstName[0]; // C
```

### Understand String Immutability
Even if you can select a value from a string the same way you can do with lists, you can't re-assign to this position a new one, you have to change the whole string.

Ex: If you want to change `Bob` to `Job`:

```js
let myStr = "Bob";
// myStr[0] = "J"; //Invalid:
myStr = "Job";
```

### Use Bracket Notation to Find the Nth Character in a String
Which value has the 2nd position? → `console.log(myStr[1])`

### Use Bracket Notation to Find the Last Character in a String
Start counting backwards: `console.log(myStr[-1])`

### Use Bracket Notation to Find the Nth-to-Last Character in a String
```js
const firstName = "Augusta";
const thirdToLastLetter = firstName[firstName.length - 3];
```

### Word Blanks
If we concatenate variables to build a sentence, we need to add the spaces:

```js
let weather = "cloudy";
const sentence = "It was " + weather + " tonight.";
```

### Store Multiple Values in one Variable using JavaScript Arrays
With `array` variables we can store several pieces of data in one place.

```js
const sandwich = ["peanut butter", "jelly", "bread"];
```

### Nest one Array within Another Array
A *multi-dimensional array* can be obtained nesting arrays within other arrays

```js
const teams = [["Bulls", 23], ["White Sox", 45]];
```

### Access Array Data with Indexes
We can access the data inside arrays using *indexes*.

They are written in the same bracket notation that strings use, except that instead of specifying a character, they are specifying an entry in the array. 

### Modify Array Data With Indexes
Unlike strings, the entries of arrays are *mutable* and can be changed freely, even if the array was declared with `const`.

```js
const ourArray = [50, 40, 30];
ourArray[0] = 15;  // [15,40,30]
```

### Access Multi-Dimensional Arrays With Indexes
One way to think of a *multi-dimensional* array, is as an *array of arrays*. When you use brackets to access your array, the first set of brackets refers to the entries in the outermost (the first level) array, and each additional pair of brackets refers to the next level of entries inside.

```js
const arr = [
  [1, 2, 3],
  [4, 5, 6],
  [7, 8, 9],
  [[10, 11, 12], 13, 14]
];

const subarray = arr[3];  //[[10, 11, 12], 13, 14]
const nestedSubarray = arr[3][0];  //[10, 11, 12]
const element = arr[3][0][1];  //11
```

### Manipulate Arrays With push Method
`.push()` adds data to the end of an array:

```js
const myArr = ["one"];
myArr.push(3);
console.log(myArr); //["one", 3]
```

### Manipulate Arrays With pop Method
`.pop()` removes and returns the last element from an array:

```js
const threeArr = [1, 4, 6];
const oneDown = threeArr.pop();
console.log(oneDown);  //6
console.log(threeArr); //[1, 4]
```

### Manipulate Arrays With shift Method
`.shift()` works like `.pop()` but with the first element.

### Manipulate Arrays With unshift Method
`.unshift()` adds elements to the beginning of the array, works like `.push()` but with the first element.

### Shopping List (exercise)
Example with an array containing arrays, each with a name any a value:

```js
const myList = [["name1", 1],["name2", 2],["name3", 2],["name4", 4],["name5", 5]];
```
### Write Reusable JavaScript with Functions
### Passing Values to Functions with Arguments
### Return a Value from a Function with Return
### Global Scope and Functions
### Local Scope and Functions
### Global vs. Local Scope in Functions
### Understanding Undefined Value returned from a Function
### Assignment with a Returned Value
### Stand in Line
In Computer Science a *queue* is an abstract *Data Structure* where items are kept in order. New items can be added at the back of the queue and old items are taken off from the front of the queue.

### Understanding Boolean Values
Another data type is the *Boolean*. Booleans may only be one of two values: `true` or `false`. They are basically little on-off switches, where `true` is on and `false` is off. These two states are mutually exclusive.  
**Note**: Boolean values are never written with quotes.

### Use Conditional Logic with If Statements
```js pseudocode
if (condition is true) {
  statement is executed
}
```

### Comparison with the Equality Operator
### Comparison with the Strict Equality Operator
### Practice comparing different values
### Comparison with the Inequality Operator
### Comparison with the Strict Inequality Operator
### Comparison with the Greater Than Operator
### Comparison with the Greater Than Or Equal To Operator
### Comparison with the Less Than Operator
### Comparison with the Less Than Or Equal To Operator
### Comparisons with the Logical And Operator
### Comparisons with the Logical Or Operator
### Introducing Else Statements
### Introducing Else If Statements
### Logical Order in If Else Statements
### Chaining If Else Statements
### Golf Code
### Selecting from Many Options with Switch Statements
### Adding a Default Option in Switch Statements
### Multiple Identical Options in Switch Statements
### Replacing If Else Chains with Switch
### Returning Boolean Values from Functions
### Return Early Pattern for Functions
### Counting Cards (exercise)

### Build JavaScript Objects
Objects are similar to `arrays`, except that instead of using indexes to access and modify their data, you access the data in objects through what are called `properties`.

Objects are useful for storing data in a structured way, and can represent real world objects, like a cat.

Here's a sample cat object:

```js
const cat = {
  "name": "Whiskers",
  "legs": 4,
  "tails": 1,
  "enemies": ["Water", "Dogs"]
};
```

In this example, all the properties are stored as strings, such as `name`, `legs`, and `tails`.  
However, you can also use numbers as properties. You can even omit the quotes for single-word string properties, but if your object has any non-string properties, JavaScript will automatically typecast them as strings.

#### Accessing to Object Keys or Values
```js
// returns an array
console.log(Object.keys(myObj));
console.log(Object.values(myObj));
```

### Accessing Object Properties with Dot Notation
Two ways to access the properties of an object: 
- Dot notation (`.`): whn you know the name of the property you're trying to access
- Bracket notation (`[]`)

```js
const testObj = {
  "hat": "ballcap",
  "shirt": "jersey",
  "shoes": "cleats"
};

const shirtValue = testObj.shirt;
console.log(shirtValue) // jersey
``` 

### Accessing Object Properties with Bracket Notation
```js
const myObj = {
  "Space Name": "Kirk",
  "More Space": "Spock",
  "NoSpace": "USS Enterprise"
};

myObj["Space Name"]; // Kirk
myObj['More Space']; // Spock
myObj["NoSpace"]; //USS Enterprise
``` 

### Accessing Object Properties with Variables
```js
const dogs = {
  Fido: "Mutt",
  Hunter: "Doberman",
  Snoopie: "Beagle"
};

const myDog = "Hunter";
const myBreed = dogs[myDog];
console.log(myBreed);
``` 

### Updating Object Properties
You can update an object's properties as you do with variable, and you can use either dot or bracket notation.

```js
const ourDog = {
  "name": "Camper",
  "legs": 4,
  "tails": 1,
  "friends": ["everything!"]
};
// change property "name"
ourDog.name = "Happy Camper"; 
// or 
ourDog["name"] = "Happy Camper";
``` 

### Add New Properties to a JavaScript Object
When we "modify" a property that doesn't exist, we are adding it.

### Delete Properties from a JavaScript Object
```js
delete myObject.someProperty;
``` 

### Using Objects for Lookups
Objects can be thought of as a key/value storage, like a dictionary. If you have tabular data, you can use an object to lookup values rather than a `switch` statement or an `if/else` chain. This is most useful when you know that your input data is limited to a certain range.

Here is an example of a simple reverse alphabet lookup:

```js
const alpha = {
  1:"Z",
  2:"Y",
  3:"X",
  4:"W",
  ...
  24:"C",
  25:"B",
  26:"A"
};

const thirdLetter = alpha[2];
const lastLetter = alpha[24];

const value = 2;
const valueLookup = alpha[value];
``` 

### Testing Objects for Properties
To check if the property of a given object exists or not. We can use the `.hasOwnProperty(propname)` method, which returns `true` or `false`.

### Manipulating Complex Objects
A JavaScript object is one way to handle a flexible *Data Structure*. They allow for arbitrary combinations of *strings, numbers, booleans, arrays, functions*, and *objects*.

Here's an example of a complex data structure:

```
const ourMusic = [
  {
    "artist": "Daft Punk",
    "title": "Homework",
    "release_year": 1997,
    "formats": [ 
      "CD", 
      "Cassette", 
      "LP"
    ],
    "gold": true
  }
];
```

This is an array which contains one object inside. The object has various pieces of *metadata* about an album. It also has a nested `formats` array. If you want to add more album records, you can do this by adding records to the top level array. Objects hold data in a property, which has a key-value format. In the example above, `"artist": "Daft Punk"` is a property that has a key of `artist` and a value of `Daft Punk`.

Note: You will need to place a comma after every object in the array, unless it is the last object in the array.
Add a new album to the myMusic array. Add artist and title strings, release_year number, and a formats array of strings.

```
const myMusic = [
  { "artist": "Lewis Capaldi",
    "title": "Bruises" },
  { "artist": "Arctic Monkeys",
    "title": "505"} ];
```

### Accessing Nested Objects
The sub-properties of objects can be accessed by chaining together the dot or bracket notation.

```
const ourStorage = {
  "desk": {
    "drawer": "stapler"
  },
  "cabinet": {
    "top drawer": { 
      "folder1": "a file",
      "folder2": "secrets"
    },
    "bottom drawer": "soda"
  }
};

ourStorage.cabinet["top drawer"].folder2;  // secrets
ourStorage.desk.drawer;  // stapler
```

### Accessing Nested Arrays
```
const ourPets = [
  {
    animalType: "cat",
    names: [
      "Meowzer",
      "Fluffy",
      "Kit-Cat"
    ]
  },
  {
    animalType: "dog",
    names: [
      "Spot",
      "Bowser",
      "Frankie"
    ]
  }
];

ourPets[0].names[1];  // Fluffy
ourPets[1].names[0];  // Spot
```

### Record Collection (exercise)
***Exercise: difficult!!***

You are given an object literal representing a part of your musical album collection. Each album has a unique id number as its key and several other properties. Not all albums have complete information.

You start with an `updateRecords` function that takes an object literal, `records`, containing the musical album collection, an `id`, a `prop` (like `artist` or `tracks`), and a `value`. Complete the function using the rules below to modify the object passed to the function.

- Your function must always return the entire record collection object.
- If `prop` isn't `tracks` and `value` isn't an empty string, update or set that album's `prop` to `value`.
- If `prop` is `tracks` but the album doesn't have a `tracks` property, create an empty array and add `value` to it.
- If `prop` is `tracks` and `value` isn't an empty string, add `value` to the end of the album's existing `tracks` array.
- If `value` is an empty string, delete the given `prop` property from the album.

Note: A copy of the `recordCollection` object is used for the tests.

```js
// Setup
const recordCollection = {
  2548: {
    albumTitle: 'Slippery When Wet',
    artist: 'Bon Jovi',
    tracks: ['Let It Rock', 'You Give Love a Bad Name']
  },
  2468: {
    albumTitle: '1999',
    artist: 'Prince',
    tracks: ['1999', 'Little Red Corvette']
  },
  1245: {
    artist: 'Robert Palmer',
    tracks: []
  },
  5439: {
    albumTitle: 'ABBA Gold'
  }
};

// Only change code below this line
function updateRecords(records, id, prop, value) {
  if ((prop !== "tracks") && (value !== '')) {
    records[id][prop] = value;
  } else if ((prop === 'tracks') && (records[id].hasOwnProperty('tracks') === false)) {
    records[id][prop] = [value]; // 1 element array, not bracket notation
  } else if ((prop === 'tracks') && (value !== '')) {
    records[id][prop].push(value)
  } else if (value === '') {
    delete records[id][prop];
  }
  return records;
}

updateRecords(recordCollection, 5439, 'artist', 'ABBA');
```

### Iterate with JavaScript While Loops
You can run the same code multiple times by using a loop.

The first type of loop we will learn is called a `while` loop because it runs while a specified condition is true and stops once that condition is no longer true.

```
const ourArray = [];
let i = 0;

while (i < 5) {
  ourArray.push(i);
  i++;
}
```

In the code example above, the `while` loop will execute 5 times and append the numbers 0 through 4 to `ourArray`.

### Iterate with JavaScript For Loops
The `for` loop runs *for* a specific number of times.  
For loops are declared with three optional expressions separated by semicolons: `for (a; b; c)`, where `a` is the initialization statement, `b` is the condition statement, and `c` is the final expression.

```js
const ourArray = [];

for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  ourArray.push(i);
}
//ourArray = [0,1,2,3,4]
```

### Iterate Odd Numbers With For Loop
### Count Backwards With a For Loop
### Iterate Through an Array with a For Loop
### Nesting For Loops
### Iterate with JavaScript Do…While Loops
### Replace Loops using Recursion
Recursion is the concept that a function can be expressed in terms of itself. To help understand this, start by thinking about the following task: multiply the first `n` elements of an array to create the product of those elements. Using a `for` loop, you could do this:

```js
  function multiply(arr, n) {
    let product = 1;
    for (let i = 0; i < n; i++) {
      product *= arr[i];
    }
    return product;
  }
```

However, notice that `multiply(arr, n) == multiply(arr, n - 1) * arr[n - 1]`. That means you can rewrite `multiply` in terms of itself and never need to use a loop.

```js
  function multiply(arr, n) {
    if (n <= 0) {
      return 1;
    } else {
      return multiply(arr, n - 1) * arr[n - 1];
    }
  }
```

The recursive version of `multiply` breaks down like this. In the *base case*, where `n <= 0`, it returns 1. For larger values of `n`, it calls itself, but with `n - 1`. That function call is evaluated in the same way, calling `multiply` again until `n <= 0`. At this point, all the functions can return and the original `multiply` returns the answer.

Note: Recursive functions must have a base case when they return without calling the function again (in this example, when `n <= 0`), otherwise they can never finish executing.


### Profile Lookup (exercice)
We have an array of objects representing different people in our contacts lists.

A `lookUpProfile` function that takes `name` and a property (`prop`) as arguments has been pre-written for you.

The function should check if `name` is an actual contact's `firstName` and the given property (`prop`) is a property of that contact.

If both are true, then return the "value" of that property.

If `name` does not correspond to any contacts then return the string `No such contact`.

If `prop` does not correspond to any valid properties of a contact found to match `name` then return the string `No such property`.

```js
function lookUpProfile(name, prop) {
  for (let x = 0; x < contacts.length; x++) {
    if (contacts[x].firstName === name) {
      if (contacts[x].hasOwnProperty(prop)) {
        return contacts[x][prop];
      } else {
        return "No such property";
      }
    }
  }
  return "No such contact";
}
```

### Generate Random Fractions with JavaScript
### Generate Random Whole Numbers with JavaScript
It's great that we can generate random decimal numbers, but it's even more useful if we use it to generate random whole numbers.

1. Use `Math.random()` to generate a random decimal.
2. Multiply that random decimal by `20`.
3. Use another function, `Math.floor()` to round the number down to its nearest whole number.

Remember that `Math.random()` can never quite return a `1` and, because we're rounding down, it's impossible to actually get `20`. This technique will give us a whole number between `0` and `19`.

Putting everything together, this is what our code looks like:

```js
Math.floor(Math.random() * 20);
```

### Generate Random Whole Numbers within a Range
```js
function randomRange(myMin, myMax) {
  return Math.floor(Math.random() * (myMax - myMin +1)) + myMin
}
```

### The `parseInt` Function
### Use the `parseInt` Function with a Radix
The parseInt() function parses a string and returns an integer.  
It takes a second argument for the radix (2-36), which specifies the base of the number in the string. 

```js
parseInt(string, radix);
```

**Ternary operator `?`**
### Use the Conditional (Ternary) Operator `?`
### Use Multiple Conditional (Ternary) Operators `?`
Instead of writing `if ... else if ... else` we can use less code lines with the *Ternary operator `?`*

```js syntax
/* if cond1 value1 else value2 */
condition ? exprIfTrue : exprIfFalse;
/* if cond1 value1 else if cond2 value2 else value3 */
condition1 ? value1 : condition2 ? value2 : value3;
```

```js
function findGreaterOrEqual(a, b) {
  if (a === b) {
    return "a and b are equal";
  }
  else if (a > b) {
    return "a is greater";
  }
  else {
    return "b is greater";
  }
}
// with the ternary operator would be
function findGreaterOrEqual(a, b) {
  return (a === b) ? "a and b are equal" 
    : (a > b) ? "a is greater" 
    : "b is greater";
}
// also in one line
function findGreaterOrEqual(a, b) {
  return (a === b) ? "a and b are equal" : (a > b) ? "a is greater" : "b is greater";
}
```

Example:

```js
function checkSign(num) {
  return num === 0 ? 'zero' : num > 0 ? 'positive' : 'negative'
}
console.log(checkSign(10)); // positive
```

**Recursive functions**
### Use Recursion to Create a Countdown
In a [previous challenge](#replace-loops-using-recursion), you learned how to use recursion to replace a for loop. Now, let's look at a more complex function that returns an array of consecutive integers starting with 1 through the number passed to the function.

As mentioned in the previous challenge, there will be a base case. The base case tells the recursive function when it no longer needs to call itself. It is a simple case where the return value is already known. There will also be a recursive call which executes the original function with different arguments. If the function is written correctly, eventually the base case will be reached.

For example, say you want to write a recursive function that returns an array containing the numbers 1 through n. This function will need to accept an argument, n, representing the final number. Then it will need to call itself with progressively smaller values of n until it reaches 1. You could write the function as follows:

```js
function countup(n) {
  if (n < 1) {
    return [];
  } else {
    const countArray = countup(n - 1);
    countArray.push(n);
    return countArray;
  }
}
console.log(countup(5));
```

The value [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] will be displayed in the console.

At first, this seems counterintuitive since the value of n decreases, but the values in the final array are increasing. This happens because the push happens last, after the recursive call has returned. At the point where n is pushed into the array, countup(n - 1) has already been evaluated and returned [1, 2, ..., n - 1].

### Use Recursion to Create a Range of Numbers
Call a function inside itself.

```
function rangeOfNumbers(startNum, endNum) {
  if (startNum <= endNum) {
    let myRange = rangeOfNumbers(startNum, endNum-1);
    myRange.push(endNum)
    return myRange;
  } else {
    return [];
  }
};

console.log(rangeOfNumbers(1,6))
```
