<style>

</style>

{{TOC}}

+++
## ES6
ECMAScript, or ES, is a standardized version of JavaScript. Because all major browsers follow this specification, the terms ECMAScript and JavaScript are interchangeable.

Most of the JavaScript you've learned up to this point was in ES5 (ECMAScript 5), which was finalized in 2009. While you can still write programs in ES5, JavaScript is constantly evolving, and new features are released every year.

ES6, released in 2015, added many powerful new features to the language.

### Compare Scopes of the `var` and `let` Keywords
Variable declaration with
- `var` → globally or locally if it's inside a function
- `let` → scope limited to the block where it's being declared

Examples:

```js
var numArray = [];
for (var i=0; i<3; i++) {
	numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray); //[0, 1, 2]
console.log(i) //3
```

With the `var` keyword `i` is declared globally, and the execution of `i++` updates it. Its similar to the following:

```js
var numArray = [];
var i;
for (i=0; i<3; i++) {
	numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray); //[0, 1, 2]
console.log(i) //3
```

This behavior will cause problems if you were to create a function and store it for later use inside a `for` loop that uses the `i` variable. This is because the stored function will always refer to the value of the updated global `i` variable.

```js
var printNumTwo;
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo()); //3
```

It prints `3` and not `2` because the value assigned to `i` was updated, and the `printNumTwo()` returns the global `i` and not the value `i` had when the function was created in the for loop.  
The `let` keyword does not follow this behavior:

```js
let printNumTwo;
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo()); //2
console.log(i); //i is not defined
```

The error `i is not defined` is because `i` was not declared in the global scope, only within the `for` loop statement. `printNumTwo()` returned the correct value because three different `i` variables with unique values (0, 1 and 2) where created.

### Mutate an Array Declared with `const`
Some developers prefer to assign their variables using `const` by default, unless they know they will need to reassign the value, where they use `let`.

Objects (including arrays and functions) assigned with `const` are still mutable, it only prevents reassignment of the variable identifier.

```js
const s = [5, 7, 2];
function editInPlace() {
  // Using s = [2, 5, 7] would be invalid
  s[0]=2; s[1]=5; s[2]=7;
}
editInPlace();
```

### Prevent Object Mutation
Using `const` doesn't protect your data from mutation, to ensure your data doesn't change there's a function `Object.freeze(myObj)`

### Use Arrow Functions to Write Concise Anonymous Functions
Inline functions are those ones that don't need name because we don't reuse them anywhere else.  
Syntax:

```js
const myFunc = function() {
	const myVar = "value";
	return myVar;
}
```

ES6 provides us with the syntactic sugar to not have to write anonymous functions this way. Instead, you can use **arrow function syntax**:

```js
const myFunc = () => {
	const myVar = "value";
	return myVar;
}
```

When there is no function body, and only a return value, arrow function syntax allows you to omit the keyword `return` as well as the brackets surrounding the code. Smaller funtions get simplified:

```js
const myFunc = () => "value";
```

### Write Arrow Functions with Parameters
You can pass arguments into an arrow function, and if it has a single argument the parentheses can be omitted:

```js
const doubler = item => item * 2;

const multiplier = (item, multi) => item * multi;
```

### Set Default Parameters for Your Functions
ES6 introduces *default parameters* for functions.

```js
const greeting = (name="Anonymous") => "Hello " + name;
console.log(greeting("John"));  // Hello John
console.log(greeting());        // Hello Anonymous
```

### Use the Rest Parameter with Function Parameters
In order to help us create more flexible functions, ES6 introduces the *rest parameter* for function parameters. With the rest parameter, you can create functions that take a variable number of arguments. These arguments are stored in an array that can be accessed later from inside the function.

```js
function howMany(...args) {
  return "You have passed " + args.length + " arguments.";
}
console.log(howMany(0, 1, 2));  // You have passed 3 arguments.
console.log(howMany("string", null, [1, 2, 3], { }));  // You have passed 4 arguments.
```

The rest parameter eliminates the need to check the `args` array and allows us to apply `map()`, `filter()` and `reduce()` on the parameters array.

```js
/* const sum = (x, y, z) => {
  const args = [x, y, z];
  return args.reduce((a, b) => a + b, 0);
} */

const sum = (...args) => {
  return args.reduce((a,b) => a+b, 0);
};

console.log(sum(1,2,3));
```

### Use the Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place
ES6 introduces the *spread operator*, which allows us to expand arrays and other expressions in places where multiple parameters or elements are expected.

The ES5 code below uses `apply()` to compute the maximum value in an array:

```js
var arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
var maximus = Math.max.apply(null, arr);  //89
```

We had to use `Math.max.apply(null, arr)` because `Math.max(arr)` returns `NaN`. `Math.max()` expects comma-separated arguments, but not an array. The spread operator makes this syntax much better to read and maintain.

```js
const arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
const maximus = Math.max(...arr); //89
```

`...arr` returns an unpacked array. In other words, it *spreads* the array. However, the spread operator only works in-place, like in an argument to a function or in an array literal. The following code will not work:

```js
const spreaded = ...arr;
```

Copy all contents of `arr1` into another array `arr2` using the spread operator.

```js
const arr1 = ['JAN', 'FEB', 'MAR', 'APR', 'MAY'];
let arr2 = [...arr1];
console.log(arr2);
```

### Use Destructuring Assignment to Extract Values from Objects
*Destructuring assignment* is special syntax introduced in ES6, for neatly assigning values taken directly from an object.

Consider the following ES5 code:

```js
const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };
const name = user.name;  // John Doe
const age = user.age;    // 34
```

Here's an equivalent assignment statement using the ES6 destructuring syntax:

```js
const { name, age } = user;
```

### Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Objects
Destructuring allows you to assign a new variable name when extracting values. You can do this by putting the new name after a colon when assigning the value.

Using the same object from the last example:

```js
const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };
```

Here's how you can give new variable names in the assignment:

```js
const { name: userName, age: userAge } = user;
```

You may read it as "get the value of `user.name` and assign it to a new variable named `userName`" and so on. The value of `userName` would be the string `John Doe`, and the value of `userAge` would be the number `34`.

### Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Nested Objects
You can use the same principles from the previous two lessons to destructure values from nested objects.

Using an object similar to previous examples:

```js
const user = {
  johnDoe: { 
    age: 34,
    email: 'johnDoe@freeCodeCamp.com'
  }
};
```

Here's how to extract the values of object properties and assign them to variables with the same name:

```js
const { johnDoe: { age, email }} = user;
```

And here's how you can assign an object properties' values to variables with different names:

```js
const { johnDoe: { age: userAge, email: userEmail }} = user;
```

### Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Arrays
ES6 makes destructuring arrays as easy as destructuring objects.

One key difference between the spread operator and array destructuring is that the spread operator unpacks all contents of an array into a comma-separated list. Consequently, you cannot pick or choose which elements you want to assign to variables.

Destructuring an array lets us do exactly that:

```js
const [a, b] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b);
```

The console will display the values of `a` and `b` as `1, 2`.

The variable `a` is assigned the first value of the array, and `b` is assigned the second value of the array. We can also access the value at any index in an array with destructuring by using commas to reach the desired index:

```js
const [a, b,,, c] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b, c);   // 1 2 5

const [d,, e,,, f] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(d, e, f);   // 1 3 6
```

```js
// Swap values of a and b
let a=8, b=6;
[a,b]=[b,a]
```

### Destructuring via rest elements
In some situations involving array destructuring, we might want to collect the rest of the elements into a separate array.

The result is similar to `Array.prototype.slice()`, as shown below:

```js
const [a, b, ...arr] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7];
console.log(a, b);   // 1, 2
console.log(arr);    // [3, 4, 5, 7]
```

Variables `a` and `b` take the first and second values from the array. After that, because of the rest syntax presence, `arr` gets the rest of the values in the form of an array. The rest element only works correctly as the last variable in the list. As in, you cannot use the rest syntax to catch a subarray that leaves out the last element of the original array.

```js
// List with first two elements omitted
function removeFirstTwo(list) {
  const [,, ...shorterList] = list;
  return shorterList;
}
```

### Use Destructuring Assignment to Pass an Object as a Function's Parameters
In some cases, you can destructure the object in a function argument itself.

Consider the code below:

```js
const profileUpdate = (profileData) => {
  const { name, age, nationality, location } = profileData;
}
```

This effectively destructures the object sent into the function. This can also be done in-place:

```js
const profileUpdate = ({ name, age, nationality, location }) => {}
```

When profileData is passed to the above function, the values are destructured from the function parameter for use within the function.

---
Use destructuring assignment within the argument to the function `half` to send only `max` and `min` inside the function:

```js
const stats = {
  max: 56.78,
  standard_deviation: 4.34,
  median: 34.54,
  mode: 23.87,
  min: -0.75,
  average: 35.85
};
// const half = (stats) => (stats.max + stats.min) / 2.0;
const half = ({max, min}) => (max + min) / 2.0; 
```


### Create Strings using Template Literals
A new feature of ES6 is the *template literal*. This is a special type of string that makes creating complex strings easier.

Template literals allow you to create multi-line strings and to use string interpolation features to create strings.

Consider the code below:

```js
const person = {
  name: "Zodiac Hasbro",
  age: 56
};

const greeting = `Hello, my name is ${person.name}!
I am ${person.age} years old.`;

console.log(greeting);
// Hello, my name is Zodiac Hasbro! and I am 56 years old.
```


A lot of things happened there. Firstly, the example uses backticks (<code>\`</code>), not quotes (`'` or `"`), to wrap the string. Secondly, notice that the string is multi-line, both in the code and the output. This saves inserting `\n` within strings. The `${variable}` syntax used above is a placeholder. Basically, you won't have to use concatenation with the `+` operator anymore. To add variables to strings, you just drop the variable in a template string and wrap it with `${` and `}`. Similarly, you can include other expressions in your string literal, for example `${a + b}`. This new way of creating strings gives you more flexibility to create robust strings.

```js
/* Put list items insite <li></li> tags */
const result = {
  success: ["max-length", "no-amd", "prefer-arrow-functions"],
  failure: ["no-var", "var-on-top", "linebreak"],
  skipped: ["no-extra-semi", "no-dup-keys"]
};
function makeList(arr) {
  const failureItems = [];
  for (let i in arr) {
    failureItems.push(`<li class="text-warning">${arr[i]}</li>`)
  }
  return failureItems;
}
const failuresList = makeList(result.failure);
```

### Write Concise Object Literal Declarations Using Object Property Shorthand
ES6 adds some nice support for easily defining object literals.  
Consider the following code:

```js
const getMousePosition = (x, y) => ({
  x: x,
  y: y
});
```

`getMousePosition` is a simple function that returns an object containing two properties. ES6 provides the syntactic sugar to eliminate the redundancy of having to write `x: x`. You can simply write `x` once, and it will be converted to `x: x` (or something equivalent) under the hood. Here is the same function from above rewritten to use this new syntax:

```js
const getMousePosition = (x, y) => ({ x, y });
```

### Write Concise Declarative Functions with ES6
When defining functions within objects in ES5, we have to use the keyword `function` as follows:

```js
const person = {
  name: "Taylor",
  sayHello: function() {
    return `Hello! My name is ${this.name}.`;
  }
};
```

With ES6, you can remove the `function` keyword and colon altogether when defining functions in objects. Here's an example of this syntax:

```js
const person = {
  name: "Taylor",
  sayHello() {
    return `Hello! My name is ${this.name}.`;
  }
};
```


### Use class Syntax to Define a Constructor Function
ES6 provides a new syntax to create objects, using the *class* keyword.

In ES5, an object can be created by defining a `constructor` function and using the `new` keyword to instantiate the object.

In ES6, a `class` declaration has a `constructor` method that is invoked with the `new` keyword. If the `constructor` method is not explicitly defined, then it is implicitly defined with no arguments.

```js
// Explicit constructor
class SpaceShuttle {
  constructor(targetPlanet) {
    this.targetPlanet = targetPlanet;
  }
  takeOff() {
    console.log("To " + this.targetPlanet + "!");
  }
}

// Implicit constructor 
class Rocket {
  launch() {
    console.log("To the moon!");
  }
}

const zeus = new SpaceShuttle('Jupiter');
// prints To Jupiter! in console
zeus.takeOff();

const atlas = new Rocket();
// prints To the moon! in console
atlas.launch();
```

It should be noted that the `class` keyword declares a new function, to which a constructor is added. This constructor is invoked when `new` is called to create a new object.

**Note**: UpperCamelCase should be used by convention for ES6 class names, as in `SpaceShuttle` used above.

The `constructor` method is a special method for creating and initializing an object created with a class. You will learn more about it in the Object Oriented Programming section of the JavaScript Algorithms And Data Structures Certification.


### Use getters and setters to Control Access to an Object
You can obtain values from an object and set the value of a property within an object.

These are classically called *getters* and *setters*.

Getter functions are meant to simply return (get) the value of an object's private variable to the user without the user directly accessing the private variable.

Setter functions are meant to modify (set) the value of an object's private variable based on the value passed into the setter function. This change could involve calculations, or even overwriting the previous value completely.

```js
class Book {
  constructor(author) {
    this._author = author;
  }
  // getter
  get writer() {
    return this._author;
  }
  // setter
  set writer(updatedAuthor) {
    this._author = updatedAuthor;
  }
}
const novel = new Book('anonymous');
console.log(novel.writer);  //anonymous
novel.writer = 'newAuthor';
console.log(novel.writer);  //newAuthor
```

Notice the syntax used to invoke the getter and setter. They do not even look like functions. Getters and setters are important because they hide internal implementation details.

**Note**: It is convention to precede the name of a private variable with an underscore (`_`). However, the practice itself does not make a variable private.

```js
/* Works with Fahrenheit but accepts and returns Celsius */
class Thermostat {
  constructor(Fahrenheit) {
    this._Fahrenheit = Fahrenheit;
  }
   get temperature() {
     return 5/9 * (this._Fahrenheit - 32);
   }
   set temperature(Celsius) {
     this._Fahrenheit = Celsius * 9.0 / 5 +32;
   }
}

const thermos = new Thermostat(76); // Setting in Fahrenheit scale
let temp = thermos.temperature; // 24.44 in Celsius
thermos.temperature = 26;
temp = thermos.temperature; // 26 in Celsius
```

### Create a Module Script
JavaScript started with a small role to play on an otherwise mostly HTML web. Today, it’s huge, and some websites are built almost entirely with JavaScript. In order to make JavaScript more modular, clean, and maintainable; ES6 introduced a way to easily share code among JavaScript files. This involves exporting parts of a file for use in one or more other files, and importing the parts you need, where you need them. In order to take advantage of this functionality, you need to create a script in your HTML document with a `type` of `module`. Here’s an example:

```html
<script type="module" src="filename.js"></script>
```

A script that uses this `module` type can now use the `import` and `export` features you will learn about in the upcoming challenges.

### Use export to Share a Code Block
Imagine a file called `math_functions.js` that contains several functions related to mathematical operations. One of them is stored in a variable, `add`, that takes in two numbers and returns their sum. You want to use this function in several different JavaScript files. In order to share it with these other files, you first need to `export` it.

```js
export const add = (x, y) => {
  return x + y;
}
```

The above is a common way to export a single function, but you can achieve the same thing like this:

```js
const add = (x, y) => {
  return x + y;
}
export { add };
```

When you export a variable or function, you can import it in another file and use it without having to rewrite the code. You can export multiple things by repeating the first example for each thing you want to export, or by placing them all in the export statement of the second example, like this:

```js
export { add, subtract };
```

### Reuse JavaScript Code Using import
`import` allows you to choose which parts of a file or module to load. In the previous lesson, the examples exported `add` from the `math_functions.js` file. Here's how you can import it to use in another file:

```hs
import { add } from './math_functions.js';
```

Here, `import` will find `add` in `math_functions.js`, import just that function for you to use, and ignore the rest. The `./` tells the import to look for the `math_functions.js` file in the same folder as the current file. The relative file path (`./`) and file extension (`.js`) are required when using import in this way.

You can import more than one item from the file by adding them in the `import` statement like this:

```js
import { add, subtract } from './math_functions.js';
```

### Use `*` to Import Everything from a File
Suppose you have a file and you wish to import all of its contents into the current file. This can be done with the `import * as` syntax. Here's an example where the contents of a file named `math_functions.js` are imported into a file in the same directory:

```js
import * as myMathModule from "./math_functions.js";
```

The above `import` statement will create an object called `myMathModule`. This is just a variable name, you can name it anything. The object will contain all of the exports from `math_functions.js `in it, so you can access the functions like you would any other object property. Here's how you can use the `add` and `subtract` functions that were imported:

```js
myMathModule.add(2,3);
myMathModule.subtract(5,3);
```

### Create an Export Fallback with export default
In the `export` lesson, you learned about the syntax referred to as a *named export*. This allowed you to make multiple functions and variables available for use in other files.

There is another `export` syntax you need to know, known as *export default*. Usually you will use this syntax if only one value is being exported from a file. It is also used to create a fallback value[^fallback_vs_default] for a file or module.

Below are examples using `export default`:

```js
export default function add(x, y) {
  return x + y;
}

export default function(x, y) {
  return x + y;
}
```

The first is a named function, and the second is an anonymous function.

Since `export default` is used to declare a fallback value for a module or file, you can only have one value be a default export in each module or file. Additionally, you cannot use `export default` with `var`, `let`, or `const`

[^fallback_vs_default]: A fallback value and a default parameter both provide default values in JavaScript, but they are used in different contexts. A default parameter is used to provide a default value for a function parameter if no value is passed when the function is called, while a fallback value is used when a particular value is not available or not provided, such as when importing values from a module.

### Import a Default Export
In the last challenge, you learned about `export default` and its uses. To import a default export, you need to use a different `import` syntax. In the following example, `add` is the default export of the `math_functions.js` file. Here is how to import it:

```js
import add from "./math_functions.js";
```

The syntax differs in one key place. The imported value, `add`, is not surrounded by curly braces (`{}`). `add` here is simply a variable name for whatever the default export of the `math_functions.js` file is. You can use any name here when importing a default.

### Create a JavaScript Promise
A promise in JavaScript is exactly what it sounds like - you use it to make a promise to do something, usually asynchronously. When the task completes, you either fulfill your promise or fail to do so. `Promise` is a constructor function, so you need to use the `new` keyword to create one. It takes a function, as its argument, with two parameters - `resolve` and `reject`. These are methods used to determine the outcome of the promise. The syntax looks like this:

```js
const myPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {});
```

### Complete a Promise with resolve and reject
A promise has three states: `pending`, `fulfilled`, and `rejected`. The promise you created in the last challenge is forever stuck in the `pending` state because you did not add a way to complete the promise. The `resolve` and `reject` parameters given to the promise argument are used to do this. `resolve` is used when you want your promise to succeed, and `reject` is used when you want it to fail. These are methods that take an argument, as seen below.

```js
const myPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  if(condition here) {
    resolve("Promise was fulfilled");
  } else {
    reject("Promise was rejected");
  }
});
```

The example above uses strings for the argument of these functions, but it can really be anything. Often, it might be an object, that you would use data from, to put on your website or elsewhere.

### Handle a Fulfilled Promise with then
Promises are most useful when you have a process that takes an unknown amount of time in your code (i.e. something asynchronous), often a server request. When you make a server request it takes some amount of time, and after it completes you usually want to do something with the response from the server. This can be achieved by using the `then` method. The `then` method is executed immediately after your promise is fulfilled with `resolve`. Here’s an example:

```js
myPromise.then(result => {});
```

`result` comes from the argument given to the `resolve` method.

### Handle a Rejected Promise with catch
`catch` is the method used when your promise has been rejected. It is executed immediately after a promise's `reject` method is called. Here’s the syntax:

```js
myPromise.catch(error => {});
```

`error` is the argument passed in to the `reject` method.


```js
const makeServerRequest = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  // responseFromServer is set to false to represent an unsuccessful response from a server
  let responseFromServer = false;
    
  if(responseFromServer) {
    resolve("We got the data");
  } else {  
    reject("Data not received");
  }
});

makeServerRequest.then(result => {console.log(result);});

makeServerRequest.catch(error => {console.log(error)});
```
