{{TOC}}


## Regular expressions
Regular expressions, often shortened to "regex" or "regexp", are patterns that help programmers match, search, and replace text. Regular expressions are very powerful, but can be hard to read because they use special characters to make more complex, flexible matches.


### Using the Test Method
- to find the word `Hell` in `Hello, World!` you could use the regex `/Hell/`
- In JavaScript there's the `.test()` method which returns `true` or `false`

```js
let myString = "Hello, World!";
let myRegex = /Hell/;
console.log(myRegex.test(myString));
```

### Match Literal Strings
The `.test()` method is case sensitive.

### Match a Literal String with Different Possibilities
You can search for multiple patterns using the *alternation* or *OR* operator: `|`, like `/yes|no|maybe/`.

### Ignore Case While Matching
*Case* is the difference between uppercase letters and lowercase letters. You can match both cases using what is called a flag. There are other flags but here you'll focus on the flag that ignores case - the `i` flag. You can use it by appending it to the regex.  
An example of using this flag is `/ignorecase/i`. This regex can match the strings `ignorecase`, `igNoreCase`, or `IgnoreCase`.

### Extract Matches
So far, you have only been checking if a pattern exists or not within a string. You can also extract the actual matches you found with the `.match()` method.

```js
"Hello, World!".match(/Hello/);
// returns ["Hello"]

let ourStr = "Regular expressions";
let ourRegex = /expressions/;
ourStr.match(ourRegex);
// returns ["expressions"]
```

Note that the `.match` syntax is the "opposite" of the `.test` method you have been using thus far:

```js
'string'.match(/regex/);
/regex/.test('string');
```

### Find More Than the First Match
To search or extract a pattern more than once, you can use the global search flag: `g`.

```js
let testStr = "Repeat, Repeat, Repeat";
let ourRegex = /Repeat/;
testStr.match(ourRegex); // returns ["Repeat"]

let repeatRegex = /Repeat/g;
testStr.match(repeatRegex); // returns ["Repeat", "Repeat", "Repeat"]
```

**Note**: You can have multiple flags on your regex like `/search/gi`

### Match Anything with Wildcard Period
The *wildcard character* `.` will match any one character. The wildcard is also called *dot* and *period*. You can use the wildcard character just like any other character in the regex. For example, if you wanted to match `hug`, `huh`, `hut`, and `hum`, you can use the regex `/hu./` to match all four words.

### Match Single Character with Multiple Possibilities
You can search for a literal pattern with some flexibility with *character classes*, which allow you to define a group of characters you wish to match by placing them inside square brackets.

- Ex.1: to match `bag`, `big`, and `bug` but not `bog` you can create the regex `/b[aiu]g/`, where the `[aiu]` is the character class that will only match the characters `a`, `i`, or `u`.  
  The four match calls would return the values `["bag"]`, `["big"]`, `["bug"]`, and `null`.
- Ex.2: `myString.match(/[aeiou]/gi)` returns all the vowels

### Match Letters of the Alphabet
Inside a character set, you can define a range of characters to match using a hyphen character: `-`.

Ex: use `[a-e]` to match lowercase letters `a` through `e`.

```js
let catStr = "cat";
let batStr = "bat";
let matStr = "mat";
let bgRegex = /[a-e]at/;
catStr.match(bgRegex);   // ["cat"]
batStr.match(bgRegex);   // ["bat"]
matStr.match(bgRegex);   // null
```

### Match Numbers and Letters of the Alphabet
You can also use the hyphen (-) to match a range of numbers (ex: `/[0-5]/`), and it is possible to combine a range of letters and numbers in a single character set:

```js
let jennyStr = "Jenny8675309";
let myRegex = /[a-z0-9]/ig;
jennyStr.match(myRegex);
```

### Match Single Characters Not Specified
A set of characters that you do not want to match is called *negated character set*.  
To create a negated character set, you place a caret character (`^`) after the opening bracket and before the characters you do not want to match.  

- Ex: `/[^aeiou]/gi` matches all characters that are not a vowel. Note that characters like `.`, `!`, `[`, `@`, `/` and white space are matched - the negated vowel character set only excludes the vowel characters.
- Ex.2: `/[^aeiou0-9]/gi` matches all characters that are not a number or a vowel

### Match Characters that Occur One or More Times
Match repeated characters with `+`. If they are not consecutive, there will be more than one match:

```js
let difficultSpelling = "Mississsippis";
let myRegex = /s+/g;
let result = difficultSpelling.match(myRegex);  // [ 'ss', 'sss', 's' ]
```

### Match Characters that Occur Zero or More Times
`+` looks for characters that occur *one* or more times. `*` matches characters that occur *zero* or more times.

```js
let soccerWord = "gooooooooal!";
let gPhrase = "gut feeling";
let oPhrase = "over the moon";
let goRegex = /go*/;
soccerWord.match(goRegex);  // ["goooooooo"]
gPhrase.match(goRegex);  // ["g"]
oPhrase.match(goRegex);  // null
```

### Find Characters with Lazy Matching
In regular expressions, a *greedy* match finds the longest possible part of a string that fits the regex pattern and returns it as a match. The alternative is called a *lazy* match, which finds the smallest possible part of the string that satisfies the regex pattern.  
Regular expressions are by default greedy. However, you can use the `?` character to change it to lazy matching.

```js
"titanic".match(/t[a-z]*i/) // ["titani"]
"titanic".match(/t[a-z]*?i/) // ["ti"]
```

**Note**: Parsing HTML with regular expressions should be avoided, but pattern matching an HTML string with regular expressions is completely fine.

Ex: to find the tag `<h1>` but not the text use the regex `/<.*?>/`

### Find One or More Criminals in a Hunt
The regex `/z+/` matches the letter `z` when it appears one or more times in a row.

### Match Beginning String Patterns
Use regex to search for patterns in specific positions in strings.

You used the caret character (`^`) inside a character set to create a negated character set in the form `[^thingsThatWillNotBeMatched]`. Outside of a character set, the caret is used to search for patterns at the beginning of strings.

```js
let firstString = "Ricky is first and can be found.";
let firstRegex = /^Ricky/;
firstRegex.test(firstString);  // true
let notFirst = "You can't find Ricky now.";
firstRegex.test(notFirst);  // false
```

### Match Ending String Patterns
You can search the end of strings using the dollar sign character `$` at the end of the regex.

### Match All Letters and Numbers
The closest character class in JavaScript to match the alphabet is \w. This shortcut is equal to `[A-Za-z0-9_]`. Note, it also includes `_`.

```js
// Counts all alphanumeric characters
let quoteSample = "The five boxing wizards jump quickly.";
let alphabetRegexV2 = /\w/g; 
let result = quoteSample.match(alphabetRegexV2).length
console.log(result)  // 31
```

### Match Everything But Letters and Numbers
The `\W` shortcut is the opposite of `\w`, and the same as `[^A-Za-z0-9_]`.

```js
// Returns all non-alphanumeric characters
let shortHand = /\W/g;
let sentence = "Earned 10$!";
sentence.match(shortHand);  // [" ", "$", "!"]
```

### Match All Numbers
Shortcut `\d` is equal to the character class `[0-9]`. 
Note: remember if you want to match *all* you must use the flag `g`.

### Match All Non-Numbers
Same as before, the opposite of `\d` is `\D`, which equals to `[^0-9]`.

### Restrict Possible Usernames
1. Usernames can only use alpha-numeric characters
2. The only numbers in the username have to be at the end (there can be more than one) but the username cannot start with a number
3. Username letters can be lowercase and uppercase
4. Usernames have to be at least two characters long. A two-character username can only use alphabet letters as characters

```js
let username = "JackOfAllTrades";
let userCheck = /^[a-z][a-z]+\d*$|^[a-z]\d\d+$/i;
let result = userCheck.test(username);
```

- `^` - start of input; `[a-z]` - first character is a letter; `i` - ignorecase
- `[a-z]+` - following characters are letters
- `\d*$` - input ends (`$`) with 0 or more digits (`\d`)
- `|` - or
- `^[a-z]` - first character is a letter
- `\d{2,}$` - following (last `$`) characters are 2 or more (`{2,}`) digits; --Also: `\d\d+$`

### Match Whitespace
You can search for whitespace using `\s`, which is a lowercase `s`. This pattern not only matches whitespace, but also carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. You can think of it as similar to the character class `[ \r\t\f\n\v]`.

### Match Non-Whitespace Characters
Search for non-whitespace using `\S`, which is an uppercase `S`. This pattern will not match whitespace, carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. You can think of it being similar to the character class `[^ \r\t\f\n\v]`.

Use it to count all characters:

```js
let whiteSpace = "Whitespace. Whitespace everywhere!"
let nonSpaceRegex = /\S/g;
whiteSpace.match(nonSpaceRegex).length;  // 32
```

### Specify Upper and Lower Number of Matches
Recall that you use the plus sign `+` to look for one or more characters and the asterisk `*` to look for zero or more characters. These are convenient but sometimes you want to match a certain range of patterns.

You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with *quantity specifiers*. Quantity specifiers are used with curly brackets (`{` and `}`). You put two numbers between the curly brackets - for the lower and upper number of patterns.

For example, to match only the letter `a` appearing between `3` and `5` times in the string `ah`, your regex would be `/a{3,5}h/`.

### Specify Only the Lower Number of Matches
You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers using curly brackets. Sometimes you only want to specify the lower number of patterns with no upper limit.

To only specify the lower number of patterns, keep the first number followed by a comma.

For example, to match only the string `hah` with the letter `a` appearing at least `3` times, your regex would be `/ha{3,}h/`.

### Specify Exact Number of Matches
You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers using curly brackets. Sometimes you only want a specific number of matches.

To specify a certain number of patterns, just have that one number between the curly brackets.

For example, to match only the word `hah` with the letter `a` `3` times, your regex would be `/ha{3}h/`.

```js
let A4 = "haaaah";
let A3 = "haaah";
let A100 = "h" + "a".repeat(100) + "h";
let multipleHA = /ha{3}h/;
multipleHA.test(A4);    //false
multipleHA.test(A3);    //true
multipleHA.test(A100);  //false
```

### Check for All or None
You can specify the possible existence of an element with a question mark, `?`. This checks for zero or one of the preceding element. You can think of this symbol as saying the previous element is optional.

For example, there are slight differences in American and British English and you can use the question mark to match both spellings.

```js
let american = "color";
let british = "colour";
let rainbowRegex= /colou?r/;
rainbowRegex.test(american); //true
rainbowRegex.test(british);  //true
```

### Positive and Negative Lookahead
*Lookaheads* are patterns that tell JavaScript to look-ahead in your string to check for patterns further along. This can be useful when you want to search for multiple patterns over the same string.

There are two kinds of lookaheads: *positive lookahead* and *negative lookahead*.

A positive lookahead will look to make sure the element in the search pattern is there, but won't actually match it. A positive lookahead is used as `(?=...)` where the `...` is the required part that is not matched.

On the other hand, a negative lookahead will look to make sure the element in the search pattern is not there. A negative lookahead is used as `(?!...)` where the `...` is the pattern that you do not want to be there. The rest of the pattern is returned if the negative lookahead part is not present.

Lookaheads are a bit confusing but some examples will help.

```js
let quit = "qu";
let noquit = "qt";
let quRegex= /q(?=u)/;
let qRegex = /q(?!u)/;
quit.match(quRegex);
noquit.match(qRegex);
```

Both of these `match` calls would return `["q"]`.

A more practical use of lookaheads is to check two or more patterns in one string. Here is a (naively) simple password checker that looks for between 3 and 6 characters and at least one number:

```js
let password = "abc123";
let checkPass = /(?=\w{3,6})(?=\D*\d)/;
checkPass.test(password);
```

Use lookaheads in the `pwRegex` to match passwords that are greater than 5 characters long, and have two consecutive digits.

```js
let sampleWord = "astronaut";
let pwRegex = /(?=\w{5,})(?=\D+\d\d)/; // Change this line
let result = pwRegex.test(sampleWord);
```

### Check For Mixed Grouping of Characters
Sometimes we want to check for groups of characters using a Regular Expression and to achieve that we use parentheses `()`.

If you want to find either `Penguin` or `Pumpkin` in a string, you can use the following Regular Expression: `/P(engu|umpk)in/g`

Then check whether the desired string groups are in the test string by using the `test()` method.

```js
let testStr = "Pumpkin";
let testRegex = /P(engu|umpk)in/;
testRegex.test(testStr); //true
```

### Reuse Patterns Using Capture Groups
### Use Capture Groups to Search and Replace
### Remove Whitespace from Start and End











+++

| **Summary – Regex** ||
| Regex | returns |
|---|---|
| `"string"` ||
| `/regex/` ||
| `/regex/.test("string")` | boolean |
| `|` | OR |
| `"string".match(/regex/)` | list of strings matched |
| `/Hello/` | literal |
| `/Hello/i` | ignore case |
| `/l/g` | more than 1st match |
| `.` | any *one* character |
| `/[a-f0-5]/` | range(s) |
| `/[^abc]/` | negate |
| `/a+/` | repeated *>1* times |
| `/a*/` | repeated *>0* times |
| `/h.*?/` | *lazy* (smallest) |


<div style='/* transform: rotate(0deg); */'>

<table><tr>
<td class='col1'>
<div class='box' style='display: block; justify-content: space-between;'>
**Anchors**

`^`  start of line  
`$`  end of line  

</div>
</td>
<td class='col2'></td>
<td class='col3'></td>
</tr></table>

</div>

More info [here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-regular-expressions-with-this-free-course-37511963d278/)

<script>
let blocks = document.querySelectorAll("pre");
blocks.forEach((block) => {
	let button = document.createElement("button");
	button.className = "fa fa-clone";
	block.insertBefore(button, block.firstChild);
	button.addEventListener("click", async () => {
	  await copyCode(block, button);
	});
});

async function copyCode(block, button) {
  let code = block.querySelector("code");
  let text = code.innerText;
  await navigator.clipboard.writeText(text);
	button.className = "fa fa-check";
  setTimeout(() => {
    button.className = "fa fa-clone";
  }, 1000);
};
document.innerHTML('hello');
</script>