{{TOC}}

+++
## Basic Data Structures
Data can be stored and accessed in many ways. You already know some common JavaScript data structures — arrays and objects.

In this Basic Data Structures course, you'll learn more about the differences between arrays and objects, and which to use in different situations. You'll also learn how to use helpful JS methods like `splice()` and `Object.keys()` to access and manipulate data

### Use an Array to Store a Collection of Data

The below is an example of the simplest implementation of an array data structure. This is known as a *one-dimensional array*, meaning it only has one level, or that it does not have any other arrays nested within it. Notice it contains *booleans*, *strings*, and *numbers*, among other valid JavaScript data types:

```js
let simpleArray = ['one', 2, 'three', true, false, undefined, null];
console.log(simpleArray.length);  //7
```

All arrays have a length property, which as shown above, can be very easily accessed with the syntax `Array.length`. A more complex implementation of an array can be seen below. This is known as a *multi-dimensional array*, or an array that contains other arrays. Notice that this array also contains JavaScript *objects*, which we will examine very closely in our next section, but for now, all you need to know is that arrays are also capable of storing complex objects.

```js
let complexArray = [
  [
    {
      one: 1,
      two: 2
    },
    {
      three: 3,
      four: 4
    }
  ],
  [
    {
      a: "a",
      b: "b"
    },
    {
      c: "c",
      d: "d"
    }
  ]
];
```


### Access an Array's Contents Using Bracket Notation

The fundamental feature of any data structure is, of course, the ability to not only store data, but to be able to retrieve that data on command. So, now that we've learned how to create an array, let's begin to think about how we can access that array's information.

When we define a simple array as seen below, there are 3 items in it:

```js
let ourArray = ["a", "b", "c"];
```

In an array, each array item has an *index*. This index doubles as the position of that item in the array, and how you reference it. However, it is important to note, that JavaScript arrays are *zero-indexed*, meaning that the first element of an array is actually at the zeroth position, not the first. In order to retrieve an element from an array we can enclose an index in brackets and append it to the end of an array, or more commonly, to a variable which references an array object. This is known as *bracket notation*. For example, if we want to retrieve the `a` from `ourArray` and assign it to a variable, we can do so with the following code:

```js
let ourVariable = ourArray[0];
```
Now `ourVariable` has the value of `a`.

In addition to accessing the value associated with an index, you can also set an index to a value using the same notation:

```js
ourArray[1] = "not b anymore";
```

Using bracket notation, we have now reset the item at index 1 from the string `b`, to `not b anymore`. Now `ourArray` is `["a", "not b anymore", "c"]`.


### Add Items to an Array with push() and unshift()

An array's length, like the data types it can contain, is not fixed. Arrays can be defined with a length of any number of elements, and elements can be added or removed over time; in other words, arrays are *mutable*. In this challenge, we will look at two methods with which we can programmatically modify an array: `Array.push()` and `Array.unshift()`.

Both methods take one or more elements as parameters and add those elements to the array the method is being called on; the `push()` method adds elements to the end of an array, and `unshift() `adds elements to the beginning. Consider the following:

```js
let twentyThree = 'XXIII';
let romanNumerals = ['XXI', 'XXII'];
romanNumerals.unshift('XIX', 'XX');
```
`romanNumerals` would have the value `['XIX', 'XX', 'XXI', 'XXII']`.

```js
romanNumerals.push(twentyThree);
```
`romanNumerals` would have the value `['XIX', 'XX', 'XXI', 'XXII', 'XXIII']`.  
Notice that we can also pass variables, which allows us even greater flexibility in dynamically modifying our array's data.


### Remove Items from an Array with pop() and shift()

Both `push()` and `unshift()` have corresponding methods that are nearly functional opposites: `pop()`, which removes an element from the end of an array, and `shift()` which removes an element from the beginning. The key difference between `pop()` and `shift()` and their cousins `push()` and `unshift()`, is that neither method takes parameters, and each only allows an array to be modified by a single element at a time.

Let's take a look:

```js
let greetings = ['whats up?', 'hello', 'see ya!'];
greetings.pop();
```
`greetings` would have the value `['whats up?', 'hello']`.

```js
greetings.shift();
```
`greetings` would have the value `['hello']`.

We can also return the value of the removed element with either method like this:

```js
let popped = greetings.pop();
```
`greetings` would have the value `[]`, and `popped` would have the value `hello`.


### Remove Items Using splice()

We can remove elements from the beginning and end of arrays using `shift()` and `pop()`, but what if we want to remove an element from somewhere in the middle? Or remove more than one element at once? The `splice()` method allows us to do just that: remove any number of consecutive elements from anywhere in an array.

`splice()` can take up to 3 parameters, but for now, we'll focus on just the first 2. The first two parameters are integers which represent indexes, or positions, of items in the array that `splice()` is being called upon. And remember, arrays are *zero-indexed*, so to indicate the first element of an array, we would use `0`. `splice()`'s first parameter represents the index on the array from which to begin removing elements, while the second parameter indicates the number of elements to delete. For example:

```js
let array = ['today', 'was', 'not', 'so', 'great'];
array.splice(2, 2);
```
Here we remove 2 elements, beginning with the third element (at index 2). `array` would have the value `['today', 'was', 'great']`.

`splice()` not only modifies the array it's being called on, but it also returns a new array containing the value of the removed elements:

```js
let array = ['I', 'am', 'feeling', 'really', 'happy'];
let newArray = array.splice(3, 2);
```
`newArray` has the value `['really', 'happy']`.


### Add Items Using splice()

The third parameter from `splice()` can be comprised of one or more element(s) (not necessary inside of an array) and allows you to add them to the array. This can be incredibly useful for quickly switching out an element, or a set of elements, for another.

```js
const numbers = [10, 11, 12, 12, 15];
const startIndex = 3;
const amountToDelete = 1;
numbers.splice(startIndex, amountToDelete, 13, 14);
console.log(numbers);
```
The second occurrence of `12` is removed, and we add `13` and `14` at the same index. The `numbers` array would now be `[ 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 ]`.

Here, we begin with an array of numbers. Then, we pass the following to `splice()`: The index at which to begin deleting elements (3), the number of elements to be deleted (1), and the remaining arguments (13, 14) will be inserted starting at that same index. Note that there can be any number of elements (separated by commas) following `amountToDelete`, each of which gets inserted.


### Copy Array Items Using slice()

The next method we will cover is `slice()`. Rather than modifying an array, `slice()` copies or *extracts* a given number of elements to a new array, leaving the array it is called upon untouched. `slice()` takes only 2 parameters — the first is the index at which to begin extraction, and the second is the index at which to stop extraction (extraction will occur up to, but not including the element at this index). Consider this:

```js
let weatherConditions = ['rain', 'snow', 'sleet', 'hail', 'clear'];
let todaysWeather = weatherConditions.slice(1, 3);
```
`todaysWeather` would have the value `['snow', 'sleet']`, while `weatherConditions` would still have `['rain', 'snow', 'sleet', 'hail', 'clear']`.

In effect, we have created a new array by extracting elements from an existing array.


### Copy an Array with the Spread Operator

While `slice()` allows us to be selective about what elements of an array to copy, among several other useful tasks, ES6's new *spread operator* allows us to easily **copy all of an array's elements**, in order, with a simple and highly readable syntax. The spread syntax simply looks like this: `...`

In practice, we can use the spread operator to copy an array like so:

```js
let thisArray = [true, true, undefined, false, null];
let thatArray = [...thisArray];
```
`thatArray` equals `[true, true, undefined, false, null]`. `thisArray` remains unchanged and `thatArray` contains the same elements as `thisArray`.


### Combine Arrays with the Spread Operator

Another huge advantage of the *spread operator* is the ability to combine arrays, or to insert all the elements of one array into another, at any index. With more traditional syntaxes, we can concatenate arrays, but this only allows us to combine arrays at the end of one, and at the start of another. Spread syntax makes the following operation extremely simple:

```js
let thisArray = ['sage', 'rosemary', 'parsley', 'thyme'];
let thatArray = ['basil', 'cilantro', ...thisArray, 'coriander'];
```
`thatArray` would have the value `['basil', 'cilantro', 'sage', 'rosemary', 'parsley', 'thyme', 'coriander']`.

Using spread syntax, we have just achieved an operation that would have been more complex and more verbose had we used traditional methods.


### Check For The Presence of an Element With indexOf()

Since arrays can be changed, or *mutated*, at any time, there's no guarantee about where a particular piece of data will be on a given array, or if that element even still exists. Luckily, JavaScript provides us with another built-in method, `indexOf()`, that allows us to quickly and easily check for the presence of an element on an array. It takes an element as a parameter, and when called, it returns the position, or index, of that element, or `-1` if the element does not exist on the array.

For example:

```js
let fruits = ['apples', 'pears', 'oranges', 'peaches', 'pears'];
fruits.indexOf('dates');    //-1
fruits.indexOf('oranges');  // 2
fruits.indexOf('pears');    // 1
```


### Iterate Through All an Array's Items Using For Loops

Sometimes when working with arrays, it is very handy to be able to iterate through each item to find one or more elements that we might need, or to manipulate an array based on which data items meet a certain set of criteria. JavaScript offers several built in methods that each iterate over arrays in slightly different ways to achieve different results (such as `every()`, `forEach()`, `map()`, etc.), however the technique which is most flexible and offers us the greatest amount of control is a simple `for` loop.

Consider the following:

```js
function greaterThanTen(arr) {
  let newArr = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
    if (arr[i] > 10) {
      newArr.push(arr[i]);
    }
  }
  return newArr;
}
greaterThanTen([2, 12, 8, 14, 80, 0, 1]);
```

Using a `for` loop, this function iterates through and accesses each element of the array, and subjects it to a simple test that we have created. In this way, we have easily and programmatically determined which data items are greater than `10`, and returned a new array, `[12, 14, 80]`, containing those items.

---
<details open>
<summary>Exercice

We have defined a function, filteredArray, which takes arr, a nested array, and elem as arguments, and returns a new array. elem represents an element that may or may not be present on one or more of the arrays nested within arr. Modify the function, using a for loop, to return a filtered version of the passed array such that any array nested within arr containing elem has been removed.

```js
function filteredArray(arr, elem) {
  let newArr = [];
  // Only change code below this line
  
  // Only change code above this line
  return newArr;
}

console.log(filteredArray([[3, 2, 3], [1, 6, 3], [3, 13, 26], [19, 3, 9]], 3));
```

</summary>
My Solution:

```js
function filteredArray(arr, elem) {
  let newArr = [];
  // Only change code below this line
  for (let i=0; i<arr.length; i++) {
    let hasElem = false;
    for (let j=0; j<arr[i].length; j++) {
      if (arr[i][j] == elem) {
        hasElem = true;
        //console.log(arr[i][j], '  ',i,j);
        break;
      }
    }
    //console.log(hasElem, i)
    if (hasElem == false) {
      newArr.push(arr[i])
    }
  }
  // Only change code above this line
  return newArr;
}

console.log(filteredArray([[3, 2, 3], [1, 6, 3], [3, 13, 26], [19, 3, 9]], 3));
```

freeCodeCamp Solution:

```js
function filteredArray(arr, elem) {
  let newArr = [];
  // change code below this line

  for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
    if (arr[i].indexOf(elem) == -1) {
      //Checks every parameter for the element and if is NOT there continues the code
      newArr.push(arr[i]); //Inserts the element of the array in the new filtered array
    }
  }

  // change code above this line
  return newArr;
}
// change code here to test different cases:
console.log(filteredArray([[3, 2, 3], [1, 6, 3], [3, 13, 26], [19, 3, 9]], 3));
```
</details>

### Create complex multi-dimensional arrays
### Add Key-Value Pairs to JavaScript Objects
### Modify an Object Nested Within an Object
### Access Property Names with Bracket Notation
### Use the delete Keyword to Remove Object Properties
### Check if an Object has a Property
### Iterate Through the Keys of an Object with a for...in Statement
### Generate an Array of All Object Keys with Object.keys()
### Modify an Array Stored in an Object